MTM-49410 As a customer I need a MQTT Connect user documentation guide (#1405)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/device-integration/mqtt-connect-bundle/java-client.md

---
weight: 20
layout: redirect
title: Java Client
---

> MQTT Connect Java Client library provides the classes necessary to interact with the MQTT Connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MQTT Connect Java Client library provides the classes necessary to interact with MQTT Connect.
```

> Following operations are supported by the client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following operations are supported by the client:
```

* Publishing messages to the MQTT Connect via WebSocket protocol.
* Subscribing to messages from the MQTT Connect via WebSocket protocol

#### Repositories and dependencies {#mqtt-connect-client-java-dep}

Follow [Microservice SDK](/microservice-sdk/java/#add-repositories-and-dependencies) documentation on how to configure maven repositories.

> To include MQTT Connect Java Client into your project just add additional dependency inside the `<dependencies>` node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To include MQTT Connect Java Client into your project just add the following additional dependency inside the `<dependencies>` node.
```

> To include MQTT Connect Java Client into your project just add the following additional dependency inside the `<dependencies>` node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To include MQTT Connect Java Client into your project, add the following dependency inside the `<dependencies>` node:
```

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.cumulocity.client.mqtt</groupId>
    <artifactId>mqtt-connect-websocket</artifactId>
    <version>${c8y.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

> #### Example {#mqtt-connect-client-java-example}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Example {#example}
```

Example usage for publishing messages to the MQTT Connect via WebSocket:
```java
// Message to be sent
final String payload = "Hello World";

// Construct a new MqttMessage and set the payload
final MqttMessage message = new MqttMessage();
message.setPayload(payload.getBytes());

// Build MqttConfig with topic to which the message is to be sent
final MqttConfig config = MqttConfig.webSocket().topic(topic).build();

// Create an instance of MqttClient by specifying the server URI to connect to along with TokenApi
final MqttClient client = MqttClient.webSocket()
        .url(webSocketBaseUrl)
        .tokenApi(tokenApi)
        .build();

> // Build MqttPublisher and publish MqttMessage. Close the resource either with usage as below or by calling publisher.close()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Build MqttPublisher and publish MqttMessage. Close the resource either by using a [try-with-resources block](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/tryResourceClose.html as below or by calling publisher.close() explicitly
```

> // Build MqttPublisher and publish MqttMessage. Close the resource either with usage as below or by calling publisher.close()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Build MqttPublisher and publish MqttMessage. Close the resource either by using a [try-with-resources block](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/tryResourceClose.html) as below or by calling publisher.close() explicitly
```

try (final MqttPublisher publisher = client.buildPublisher(config)) {
    publisher.publish(message);
} catch (Exception e) {
    log.error("Could not sent message to {}", topic, e);
}
```

> Example usage for subscribing to messages from the MQTT Connect via WebSocket:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of subscribing to messages from the MQTT Connect via WebSocket:
```
